## Description

Given two sentences `words1, words2` (each represented as an array of strings), and a list of similar word pairs `pairs`, determine if two sentences are similar.

For example, "great acting skills" and "fine drama talent" are similar, if the similar word pairs are `pairs = [["great", "fine"], ["acting","drama"], ["skills","talent"]]`.

Note that the similarity relation is not transitive. For example, if "great" and "fine" are similar, and "fine" and "good" are similar, "great" and "good" are **not** necessarily similar.

However, similarity is symmetric. For example, "great" and "fine" being similar is the same as "fine" and "great" being similar.

Also, a word is always similar with itself. For example, the sentences `words1 = ["great"], words2 = ["great"], pairs = []` are similar, even though there are no specified similar word pairs.

Finally, sentences can only be similar if they have the same number of words. So a sentence like `words1 = ["great"]` can never be similar to `words2 = ["doubleplus","good"]`.

**Note:**

The length of `words1` and `words2` will not exceed `1000`.

The length of `pairs` will not exceed `2000`.

The length of each `pairs[i]` will be `2`.

The length of each `words[i]` and `pairs[i][j]` will be in the range `[1, 20]`.



------

## python solution



- 如果words1与words2长度必须相同
- `words1[i]`==`words2[i]` 或者`(words1[i], words2[i])`在pairs中或者`(words2[i], words1[i])`在pairs中。
- 其他情况均视为不满足条件。

```python
class Solution:
    def areSentencesSimilar(self, words1, words2, pairs):
        """
        :type words1: List[str]
        :type words2: List[str]
        :type pairs: List[List[str]]
        :rtype: bool
        """

        if len(words1) != len(words2): return False

        for i in range(len(words2)):

            if words1[i] == words2[i] or [words1[i], words2[i]] in pairs or [words2[i], words1[i]] in pairs:
                continue
            else:
                return False
        return True
```

可以将pairs转化为set结构，提高查找速度。

可以使用但没必要，因为使用列表也能accepted。